>> Jem Young: In this section,
we're gonna discuss HTTP.
And it's probably one of the longer
sections of other than security,
because security's important and
HTTP is important.
It's surprising as UI developers how
little we kind of dig into the underlying
protocol of the thing that's
transforming all of our code.
I mean, [LAUGH] we literally
write hypertext markup.
And this is one of the ways, or
this is the way that hypertext gets
transferred over the Internet.
But we never spent a lot of time
thinking about, how it's working or
why it's working?
So in my mind,
to be a good full stack engineer,
you have to understand
what this protocol is.
And like everything else that ends in a P,
it means it's a protocol.
[LAUGH] So what is HTTP?
>> Jem Young: There are no wrong answers.
If you haven't figured that out,
just throw something out, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: HyperText
Transport Protocol.
>> Jem Young: That's pretty good.
Did you look at the next slide?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> Jem Young: Right, yes,
you're absolutely right.
HyperText Transport Protocol.
But what is it really,
besides that definition?
>> Speaker 2: It's a standard?
>> Jem Young: Yeah,
it's this thing that carries our code.
It defines how the code moves
from the server to our client.
And how to decrypt that, more importantly.
And HTTP runs over TCP.
And we talked a bit about TCP and
IP and UDP and all the Ps.
But HTTP's really the one
we care most about.
Because as a UI engineer, or
even a full stack engineer,
you don't care that much about TCP.
You know that it works.
You know that there's a standards body,
that they all agreed that if I send you
a packet of information with the TCP
protocol, Transmission Control Protocol,
you know how to decode that.
But HTTP is really,
it's what the data is comprised of.
So a packet wraps HTTP data and
then we decode that.
And the browser's all know to decode,
they speak this common language.
>> Jem Young: The model for HTTP is
request and response, much like TCP.
Versus something,
like we talked about UDP or ICMP.
Those are just packets
that are broadcasting.
This one cares about request and response.
That's the entire model of HTTP.
The request and response.
And we'll dig into that.
>> Jem Young: An HTTP request
actually looks something like this,
along with the data payload.
But mainly, we see a few key parts here.
We see the GET, so the method.
Then we see a bunch of headers.
And then somewhere in there
will be a data payload.
And it's funny if I showed you this and
didn't tell you it was HTTP.
You could probably guess this is
what an HTTP diagram looks like.
But we never think about,
what is the breakdown of
the actual structure what HTTP is?